---
layout: page
title: France
permalink: /ceremony/
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  We will be having a ceremony and reception in <strong>Amboise,
    France on 13 May</strong> 2017. Check back soon more details.
</div>

<ul>
 <li>
  <a href="#amboise-info">Amboise and the Loire Valley</a>
 </li>
 <ul>
  <li>
   <a href="#in-amboise">Things to Do in Amboise</a>
  </li>
  <li>
   <a href="#close-to-amboise">Things to Do Close to Amboise</a>
  </li>
 </ul>
 <li>
  <a href="#paris-info">Paris</a>
 </li>
 <ul>
  <li><a href="#getting-around">Getting Around</a></li>
  <li><a href="#restaurants">Restaurants</a></li>
  <li><a href="#cooking-shops">Cooking and Food Shops</a></li>
  <li><a href="#bakeries">Bakeries and Pastry Shops</a></li>
  <li><a href="#chocolates">Chocolates and Cheese</a></li>
  <li><a href="#scarves">Silk and Scarf Shop</a></li>
  <li><a href="#markets">Markets</a></li>
 </ul>
</ul>

<h2 id="amboise-info">Amboise and the Loire Valley</h2>

<img src="/images/amboise-chateau.jpg" alt="Chateau d'Amboise" />

Amboise is a small town of about 12,000 in the central Loire valley.
It is the town most often used as a base for exploring the region due
to its central location and its access to other castles and
attractions in the area.

Please note that many stores, restaurants, and businesses close
between noon and 14h (2:00pm) and are also **closed on Sunday afternoon
and on Mondays**. Plan your time accordingly.

There is a **small grocery store**, *Carrefour City*, in town which is
handy. There is also a **fruit and cheese market**, which also has
fresh cheese and eggs, on the corner and a butcher half a block from
the apartment. There is also a **larger grocery store**, *Leclerc*,
just outside of town for your shopping pleasure. Grocery stores are
great places to get a sense of the culture, but also to find unique
things to bring back as gifts or mementos. From boxes of sugar cubes
to coffee to chocolates to kitchen towels written in French, things
will be cheaper here and generally better quality than at a souvenir
shop.

There are several places to **rent bikes** in town&ndash;a great way to
explore the region. The *Loire à Velo* is an 800 kilometer bike path
that takes you from town to town and to many of the area’s
attractions. Some of it is a shared path, running along smaller roads
with car traffic, but traffic is usually very light. For example, you
can get to the Chåteau de Chenonceau in about an hour from Amboise and
it is a pleasant ride (one kind of big hill). You can also cross the
river and visit a variety of vineyards and the small town of Vouvray,
or stay on this side of the river and go east to visit Montlouis sur
Loire, another wine producing town.

Let Sandra know if you want **running/walking routes** in Amboise, since
she and Tim have many to recommend, from 3 mile routes to 18 mile
marathon training runs.

There are many **places to eat** from inexpensive to gourmet. Many
restaurants close at 14h30 or so (about 2:30pm, at the end of lunch)
and will not reopen until19h30 (7:30pm) for dinner, although smaller
places may stay open (including some right downtown). They often have
a sign that says Service Continu or Non Stop Service. If you want to
do a picnic or to eat at home, note that many stores, including
boulangeries, close about 13h (1:00pm) or shortly thereafter. There
are three or four bakeries right on the Rue Nationale, but our
favorite is Gauvreau at 40 Quai du Général de Gaulle—they definitely
have the best bread, pastries, and cakes. We’ll post a list of
restaurants and bakeries, including our favorites, closer to the
wedding date.

<h3 id="in-amboise">Things to Do in Amboise</h3>

Amboise is small, but has a fair amount of charm and attraction of its
own. You can walk along the river, visit the castle, or taste wine.

#### Chåteau d’Amboise

The castle is one of the main attractions in the city. You can visit
every day from 9h to 18:30h. The entrance fee is 11,20€. The main
chåteau dates from the 15th century and its Chapel St Hubert houses
the remains of Leonardo da Vinci, who François I brought to Amboise
from Italy. He carried the Mona Lisa on his back, along with two
other paintings, which is why it is now in the Louvre rather than in a
museum in Italy.

#### Clos Lucé

This is the house where da Vinci lived for the last three years of his
life after coming to Amboise at the request of François I. He died
here and the house is now a museum and a park dedicated to his life
and work. You can see many of his drawings and models of his
inventions. The park is a beautiful garden with large models of some
of his inventions, some of them made into toys for children. You can
visit from 9h to 18h and the entrance fee is 15€. You can also have a
nice lunch or enjoy a glass of wine here, or bring a picnic lunch—it
makes for a very nice afternoon. This is where the wedding will be
and you will have access to the grounds as one of our guests.

#### Le Marché

The open air market in Amboise takes place every Friday and Sunday
from approximately 9h to 13h on the bank of the Loire just past the
gazebo on the Quai du Général de Gaulle. It’s hard to see from the
street, you need to go over the embankment to reach it. It is
definitely worth the visit and is known as one of the best markets in
the region, especially on Sunday, which is larger than the Friday
market. You can find bread, cheese, eggs, produce, meats, fish,
clothing, kitchenware, and many other items. The roast chickens and
potatoes, and the paella are amazing. One rule of thumb is that you
generally do NOT touch food in markets (or at small shops), you ask
for it and they will choose the items for you.

#### Rue Nationale

The Rue Nationale is a semi-pedestrian street that runs west from the
castle for several blocks. It is filled with small shops,
restaurants, and bakeries. There is also a small cinema here if you
want to see a film in French (sometimes they have films with
subtitles, but it’s rare).


#### Eglise Saint Denis

The church is located at the end of the Rue Nationale and at the
beginning of a small hill. It is worth a visit, although quite simple
in structure. The church still serves as the local parish for the
community and the local choir practices and performs here regularly,
as does the orchestra.

#### Eglise Saint Florentin

This church is on the Quai du Général de Gaulle and Rue Victor Hugo.
It was the original parish in the area, but had been closed for many
years because it was in such disrepair. It is now being renovated and
there is a lot of information inside about the church and the history
of the city. It’s definitely worth a visit.

#### Madame Bigot Chocolates

This outstanding chocolate shop is located at the corner of rue
Nationale and rue Victor Hugo. Bigot gets its own line because it’s
quite famous in town, but also because their chocolates are amazing.
You can buy individual chocolates, chocolate bars, beautiful boxes of
chocolates or sit in the little café and have some of the best hot
chocolate you have ever tasted. Their pastries are also quite good,
and their macarons are some of the best I’ve had (make sure to try the
caramel au beurre sale) and their ice cream is very good as well. In
the summer they also have a small outdoor seating area where you can
order small lunch items.

#### Caveau des Vignerons

This is a wine cellar that is built within the walls of the château
that offers free tastings of locally made wine, goat cheese, foie
gras, and preserved meats. It is a great place to buy inexpensive
local wines and cheeses, and to taste them before you buy. They also
sell posters, glasses, and a few other items. The Caveau des
Vignerons is open daily from 10h to 19h and there is no fee for
tasting.

#### Cave Duhard

Located at 56, rue de Rocher des Violettes, this wine producer has
mostly white Vouvray wines. You can walk through the cave and then
taste a variety of wines and cheeses. Prices are very reasonable.
It’s a bit hard to find, but worth searching it out. A very nice
little visit.

#### Maisons Troglodytiques

These centuries-old houses are built into hollowed-out cliffs along
the rue Victor Huga, a narrow, winding street that goes from the
castle to Clos Lucé. Constructed at the same time as the château,
these houses belonged to modest factory workers who grew gardens on
the roofs and carved additional rooms into the rock. Today, many of
the houses are vacant while others have been turned into modern,
luxurious homes. You can walk up the cul-de-sac at rue Leonard
Perrault to see some of these interesting structures.

#### Canoeing or Kayaking along the Loire

On the Ile d’Or you can rent canoes or kayaks from the *Club de Canoe
et Kayak d’Amboise*. Check it out at:
[www.loire-aventure.fr](http://www.loire-aventure.fr). They will take
you by van to Chaumont where you will begin your water journey back
down to Amboise. It’s an easy route, with the downstream current.
You can pack a picnic lunch and stop at one of the many deserted
islands along the way to eat.

#### Vue Panoramic Also, if you walk up rue Victor Hugo from the
castle to *Clos Lucé* you will see a small sign and a stairway on the
left. If you take this stairway up you pass some troglodyte homes,
but eventually end up at an observation point high over the city.
It’s well worth the walk and a really great vantage point for photos
and to see the city.

There are many other places you can walk to for outstanding views of
the city. Stop by the *Office de Tourisme* for a map that shows walking
tours for the city. Some of them definitely involve steep climbs, but
they are generally worth it. You can always walk around town and look
for the brown signs, which indicate places of interest.

<h3 id="close-to-amboise">Things to Do Close to Amboise</h3>

There are many castles near Amboise that are a short train ride or
even a short bicycle ride away. In addition, there are cheese
producers, vineyards, markets, larger cities, nature trails, and other
things to visit in close proximity, along with the ever popular *Loire
à Vélo* bike path that is definitely worth exploring. This is just a
small list of the many things to do and see in the area. There are
way too many castles to visit to list them all here; the same is true
for vineyards. You can choose to do as little or as much as you want
to try to fit into your timeframe. But remember to save time for
relaxing and enjoying the fine wine and food of the area.

#### Pagode de Chanteloup

Only about 3 kilometers from town, an interesting visit to a 44 meter
tall tower that you can climb for a great panoramic view of the
countryside. Nice bike ride out here as well.

#### Chenonceaux One of the most well known and historical castles in
the Loire. DEFINITELY worth a visit. You can take a train here with
a connection in Tours, or there is a bus (but it doesn’t run often).
You can bike here in about an hour, and most of the roads you ride on
are back roads with little traffic. The town itself has not much in
it so don’t plan on lunch or much else in town. There are restaurants
within the castle grounds, but they are pretty expensive for what you
get. No picnics are allowed within the grounds, but you can eat at
picnic tables just outside of it.

#### Chaumont

One of the castles most well known for its beautiful gardens—they have
different international gardeners do designs each year. You can get
here by train (10 minutes) or bike (30 minutes).

#### Blois

Another really interesting castle (historically and architecturally)
that is easy to get to by train (18 minutes). This is a larger town
so it offers more in the way of shopping, eating, and visiting than
most of the others.

#### Tours

The largest town in the area; there is much to do here. The markets
(both indoor and many outdoor) are excellent, the restaurants are
outstanding, the museums are interesting, and the city is fun to walk.
It’s well worth a visit, and it’s just a 10—15 minute train ride or an
hour bike ride.

#### Montlouis sur Loire and/or Vouvray

Both of these small towns are well known white wine producers. They
both have cooperative caves that you can visit to taste and buy wine.
You can take the train to Montlouis, but not to Vouvray. Either are
short bike rides, about 40—60 minutes. On the road right along the
Loire (on the way to Tours) in Montlouis is *La Cave Insolite de
François Chidaine*, one of the finest wine producers in the area.
Another cave we recommend visiting is *Domaine Huet* in Vouvray—their
whites and pétillants (sparkling wine of the region) are absolutely
outstanding, and they do a very nice tasting and visit of the cave if
you arrange in advance.

Our other favorite castles to visit are Chambord to the east;
Villandry to the west. There are plenty of others, but these are our
favorites.

If you have time, visiting Orléans is also interesting. A large city,
halfway between Paris and Amboise, there is a lot to do and see in
this city where Joan of Arc is revered and celebrated. Just under an
hour by train.

<h2 id="paris-info">Paris</h2>

<img src="/images/paris.jpg" />

Sandra is available to answer any questions you might have. She has
extensive knowledge of the city and is happy to help you plan your
trip. Contact her at:
[sspretty50@icloud.com](mailto:sspretty50@icloud.com). Sandra also
has a list of recommended hotels and apartments in Paris, so just let
her know what you need.

<h3 id="getting-around">Getting Around in Paris</h3>

The best interactive map is
[here](http://www.hot-maps.de/europe/france/paris/homeen.html). Use
the map to plan your routes, see which museums/monuments are close to
each other, etc. A really useful tool.

The **bus and subway system** in Paris is a great way to get around. You
can find maps and information at [their website](http://ratp.fr).
Depending on how much you plan to use the system, it might be worth
buying a Paris Visite card (unlimited travel for a given number of
days) just to have—when you’re tired it will make all the difference.
Zones 1—3 are fine for everything in the city, but if you plan to
visit Versailles, you need a ticket for Zones 1—5. You can buy the
Paris Visite card at any metro station or tourist office.

Bus and Subway Pass Prices:
<table class="table">
 <tr>
  <th></th>
  <th>Zones 1—3</th>
  <th>Zones 1—5</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>1 day</td>
  <td>11€15</td>
  <td>23€50</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>2 day</td>
  <td>18€15</td>
  <td>35€70</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>3 day</td>
  <td>24€80</td>
  <td>50€05</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>5 day</td>
  <td>35€70</td>
  <td>61€25</td>
 </tr>
</table>

A booklet of 10 individual metro tickets is available for 14€10 and an
individual ticket costs 1€80. This is your best bet if you plan to
walk a lot and not depend on public transit.

The [website for the **Paris museum and monument
pass**](http://www.parismuseumpass.com/en/home.php) is definitely worth
getting and can save a lot of money on entrance fees to all kinds of
things. You also get to bypass many of the entrance lines. Don’t buy
it in advance from another company, just buy it at the first museum or
monument you go to. The pass gives you a lot of freedom to do things
like going in the Louvre for an hour and going back later in the day
(and not having to feel bad about paying twice) or going up the Arc de
Triomphe four times at different times of day and night. It does not
include the Eiffel Tower, but includes just about everything else.

Museum Pass Prices:
<table class="table">
 <tr>
  <td>2 day pass</td>
  <td>48€</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>4 day pass</td>
  <td>62€</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>6 day pass</td>
  <td>74€</td>
 </tr>
</table>

Make sure to **walk the Seine at night**, visit the **Eiffel Tower**
(walk underneath it, around it, and across from it, during the day and
at night—I don’t necessarily recommend going up, but it is an amazing
sight), go up the **Arc de Triomphe** during the day AND at night, and do
as much as you can by day. Walk in the Luxembourg gardens, run along
the Seine early in the morning, eat great bread and have great coffee
(order a café crème for the morning, most like a latte). Eat
croissants, but not too many! Drink great wine, red and white, and not
to mention champagne and cognac. Walk, walk, walk, and walk some
more!

It’s definitely worth going up the **Arc de Triomphe** at different
times of day and night (it’s included in the museum and monument
pass). Make sure to go up the outside of **Notre Dame**—best view of
Paris and included in the m & m pass. Make sure to go to the **Sainte
Chappelle**, probably the most beautiful place in Paris. The **Musée
d’Orsay** is wonderful as is the **Rodin Museum**—they’re two of our
favorites. **The Louvre** is amazing, but takes months to go through,
so if you decide to go I recommend choosing a particular time period
or artist to explore. Walk through the **Luxembourg Gardens** and
enjoy the gardens and the art, and visit St. Sulpice, the church in
the 6th arrondissement, made famous by Dan Brown’s novel, The *Da
Vinci Code*. It’s just slightly smaller than Notre Dame, and the
second largest church in Paris. I also recommend (as touristy as it
sounds) taking one of the **boat cruises along the Seine**, it will
help orient you to the city, it’s a nice thing to do right when you
get there and you’re a bit tired. Sit back and enjoy the boat ride.

Make sure to visit some of the **outstanding markets in Paris**. The city
hall description of all 75 of them can be found [here](http://www.paris.fr/portail/marches_parisiens/Portal.lut?page_id=5675&document_type_id=5&document_id=10926&portlet_id=12148), and our favorites are listed later in this document.

Try to go to one of the many **music concerts** offered in historic
and cultural venues such as la Sainte Chappelle. They’re often
wonderful artists and the venues couldn’t be more spectacular.

<h3 id="restaurants">Restaurants</h3>

<dl>
  <dt>Les Trois Font la Pairein the 5th</dt>
  <dd>26, boulevard St. Germain</dd>
  <dd>
    Outstanding food with interesting combinations and twists on old
    favorites, owned by friends of ours, very reasonable prices.
    Definitely worth a visit.
  </dd>
  <dt>Le Petit Prince de Paris in the 5th</dt>
  <dd>12, rue de Lanneau, 75005</dd>
  <dd>
    Outstanding food with an [interesting and eclectic
    menu](http://lepetitprincedeparis.fr). It’s kind of hard to find,
    but worth it. Menus range from 16 to 24€ per person. Desserts are
    fab.
  </dd>
  <dt>Le Ciel de Paris</dt>
  <dd>
    This is at the top of the Tour Montparnasse and has an amazing
    view of Paris, it truly is beautiful.  This would be a good choice
    for a celebration dinner, or just for a wonderful evening out,
    check it out at    [http://cieldeparis.com](http://cieldeparis.com). There is a prix
    fixe at 58€ which includes appetizer, entrée and
    dessert—outstanding food and service.  We have had some very
    special dinners there.
  </dd>
  <dt>L’Affiche in the 8th</dt>
  <dd>48 rue de Moscou</dd>
  <dd>
    Great little bistro with good food and very good prices,
    especially for the area.
  </dd>
  <dt>Le Procope in the 5th</dt>
  <dd>
    Reputed to be the oldest restaurant in Paris, costs generally
    between 25 and 40€ per person. Very classic.
  </dd>
  <dt>Les Editeurs in the 6th</dt>
  <dd>4 Carrefour de l’Odeon, 75006</dd>
  <dd>
    great place for lunch, known for its longevity and link to the
    Sorbonne and great intellectuals.  Good food, homey atmosphere,
    decent prices.
  </dd>
  <dt>Le Nemrod (6th arrondissement)</dt>
  <dd>51, rue du Cherche Midi</dd>
  <dd>
    This is a great little neighborhood restaurant on a great street.
    Prices are very reasonable. Wine list is decent and cheese
    selection is nice.
  </dd>
  <dt>Café Rousseau</dt>
  <dd>rue du Cherche Midi</dd>
  <dd>
    This is a very nice café for breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Just
    down the street from the Nemrod, but I don't have an address. The
    décor here is fabulous.
  </dd>
  <dt>La Cremerie (6th arrondissement Métro Odéon)</dt>
  <dd>9 rue des Quatre Vents</dd>
  <dd>
    This is a great little cave which does wine tastings, but also has
    food, including an apéro special for 10€. They also have wine and
    a wonderful selection of fine food items for sale. A great find.
  </dd>
  <dt>Il Sorrentino in the 7th</dt>
  <dd>20 rue de Monttessuy</dd>
  <dd>
    This restaurant has a view of the Eiffel Tower if you can get one
    of the outside tables. GREAT Italian food and decent prices for
    Paris.
  </dd>
  <dt>The restaurant in the Centre Pompidou</dt>
  <dd>
    Great fun with good fun and not too pricey. Definitely worth a
    visit.
  </dd>
  <dt>Les Fêtes Galantes in the 5th</dt>
  <dd>17 rue de l’Ecole Polytheqnique, 75005</dd>
  <dd>
    Outstanding restaurant, but really tiny, in the 5th. Nice twists
    on traditional French fare and the owners (chef and host) are
    awesome. Well worth a visit. Plan to spend about 20 euros per
    person, a bit more with wine.
  </dd>
  <dt>Nos Ancêtres les Gaulois</dt>
  <dd>39, rue St. Louis en l'Ile</dd>
  <dd>
    This is a fun and interesting restaurant down in a basement. Open
    from 7pm to 2am, it's a prix fixe menu at 37€. You get a crudités
    basket with cured meats and mixed salads; a choice of grilled
    meat; vegetable and starch (usually some kind of rice in sauce,
    vegetable like eggplant or ratatouille, and haricots verts); a
    cheese course, and dessert. Plus, all the red wine you can drink.
    Just fun (plus I went there at 19 and left my keys as a tip for
    the waiter—oh wait they were the keys to a friend's apartment).
  </dd>
  <dt>Emily’s favorite restaurant: Chartier</dt>
  <dd>7 rue du Faubourg Montmartre, 75009</dd>
  <dd>
    very large, very classic, very traditional French restaurant. See
    [their website](http://restaurant-chartier.com) for more
    information.
  </dd>
  <dt>Berthillon</dt>
  <dd>31, rue St. Louis en l'Ile</dd>
  <dd>
    Often touted as the best ice cream in the world. It’s pretty good,
    but lines can be long and it's not cheap. But definitely worth
    it. You can often find Berthillon ice cream at restaurants (which
    is sometimes a better buy—for example Le Nemrod serves it).
    [http://berthillon-glacier.fr](http://berthillon-glacier.fr)
  </dd>
</dl>

<h3 id="cooking-shops">Cooking and Food Shops</h3>

<dl>
 <dt>Dehillerin (18 rue Coquillière)</dt>
 <dd>
  This is a funky, old-fashioned French shop that is floor to
  ceiling cooking utensils with everything you could ever hope to
  find. Lots of copper, great selection of Le Creuset and others,
  great silicon stuff, and awesome cookie cutters (look for the
  shape of France and the big Eiffel Tower). They will ship if you
  need it! But beware, there are no prices on anything and they
  don’t like to give them out if you ask. Very French service, but
  awesome stuff in stock, so… (While you’re in the area make sure to
  check out the Saint-Eustache church—one of our favorites).
 </dd>
 <dt>Mora (13-15 rue Montmartre, around the corner from Dehillerin)</dt>
 <dd>
  Professional baking and pastry shop with outstanding selection and
  hard to find items. Just down the street make sure to check out
  Foie Gras de Luxe (26 rue Montmartre), which has a great selection
  of luxury food items.
 </dd>
 <dt>A. Simon (48—52 rue Montmartre)</dt>
 <dd>
  Another shop with a good selection of cooking items, but I think a
  bit more expensive than Dehillerin (which isn’t cheap to begin
  with).
 </dd>
 <dt>Detou (58 rue Tiquetonne)</dt>
 <dd>
  A great shop where you’ll run into pastry chefs and home cooks.
  Make sure to check out the 3-kilo bags of Valrhona chocoate, tubs
  of pistachio paste, vanilla (and the vanilla beans in bourbon),
  and chestnut cream. An absolute MUST!
 </dd>
 <dt>La Grande Epicerie de Paris (38, rue de Sèvres)</dt>
 <dd>
  They have almost anything you want here in food and wine. Prices
  can be very high, but sometimes they’re very reasonable. It is a
  must see and visit as far as I’m concerned, even if you don’t buy
  much. Very chic and very fun.
 </dd>
</dl>

<h3 id="bakeries">Bakeries and Pastry Shops</h3>

<dl>
 <dt>Eric Keyser</dt>
 <dd>
  (various locations in the city, check out [their
  website](http://www.maison-kayser.com)&ndash;absolutely some of
  the best bread I’ve ever eaten, with wonderful fig bread and
  rolls, outstanding pastries, fabulous quiches and sandwiches, all
  in all a must visit.
 </dd>
 <dt>Julien (75 rue St-Honoré)</dt>
 <dd>
  their baguettes have won the Paris award for the city’s best
  baguette. There’s generally a line, but it’s worth it.
 </dd>
 <dt>Stohrer (51 rue Montorgueil)</dt>
 <dd>
  An outstanding pastry shop, supposedly the place that invented the
  baba au rhum. Make sure to stroll the street in general which is
  a market street with several really good cheese shops.
 </dd>
</dl>

<h3 id="chocolates">Chocolates and Cheese</h3>

<dl>
 <dt>Jean-Paul Hévin (231 rue Saint-Honoré)</dt>
 <dd>
  One of four Paris branches of Jean-Paul Hévin. This is the only
  one with its own tea room, but make sure to try the chocolates –
  including the famous cheese-filled creations. These are
  outstanding with a glass of red wine. Very different, and very
  French.
 </dd>
 <dt>Patrick Roger (108 boulevard St-Germain)</dt>
 <dd>
  This is where you can find great chocolate sculptures that taste
  as good as they look.
 </dd>
 <dt>Fromagerie 31 (64 rue de Seine)</dt>
 <dd>
  This is a relatively new cheese shop that has its own bar à
  fromages (cheese bar) where you can try different selections.
  It’s a great little place, a bit expensive, but very fun.
 </dd>
</dl>

<h3 id="scarves">Silk and Scarf Shop</h3>

<dl>
 <dt>Petrusse (46, boulevard Raspail)</dt>
 <dd>
  Beautiful silk scarves and wraps. Expensive, but very fun to
  look. Great sales in January and July, it’s definitely worth
  buying then.
 </dd>
</dl>

<h3 id="markets">Markets</h3>

#### Open Air or Market Streets

<dl>
 <dt>
  Rue Montorgeuil (2nd arrondissement, Metro: Etienne-Marcel or
  Sentier)
 </dt>
 <dd>
  Old-fashioned pedestrian market street open daily (some shops
  closed Sundays).
 </dd>
 <dt>Rue Rambuteau (3rd arrondissement, Metro: Rambuteau)</dt>
 <dd>
  Market street in the Marais, shops normally open
  Tuesday-Saturday.</dd>
 <dt>
  Rue Mouffetard (5th arrondissement, Metro: Censier-Daubenton or
  Place Monge)
 </dt>
 <dd>
  A historic market street with an open market towards the bottom,
  open Tuesday-Sunday morning (stands close for lunch).
 </dd>
 <dt>Marché du Boulevard Raspail (6th arrondissement, Metro: Rennes)</dt>
 <dd>
  This large covered market between the Rue du Cherche Midi and the
  Rue de Rennes is open Tuesday and Friday 7am-1:30pm. On Sunday
  there’s an organic market (marché bio), 9am-1pm.
 </dd>
 <dt>Rue Cler (7th arrondissement, Metro: Ecole-Militaire)</dt>
 <dd>
  Traditional market street in a stylish neighborhood, shops open
  Tuesday-Saturday.
 </dd>
 <dt>
  Rue du Faubourg St-Denis (10th arrondissement, Metro: Château
  d’Eau or Strasbourg-St-Denis)</dt>
 <dd>
  This busy market street has a mix of traditional and ethnic food
  shops. Some great bargains. Shops open Tuesday-Saturday, and
  Sunday morning.
 </dd>
 <dt>Marché Bastille (11th arrondissement, Metro: Bastille or Breguet-Sabine)</dt>
 <dd>
  This large market extends along the Boulevard Richard Lenoir on
  Thursday and Sunday mornings. Prices get cheaper as you get closer
  to the Place de la Bastille.
 </dd>
 <dt>Flower Market: Place de la Madeleine (8th arrondissement)</dt>
 <dd>
  Amazing flower market that takes place Sunday to Friday from 8am
  to 5:30pm.
 </dd>
</dl>

#### Covered Markets

<dl>
 <dt>
  Marché des Enfants-Rouges (39 Rue de Bretagne, 3rd arrondissement,
  Metro: Temple)</dt>
 <dd>
  This is the oldest covered market in Paris, dating back to 1612
  and completely renovated in 2002. A small number of stands with
  traditional market products. Open Tuesday-Thursday 9am-2pm and
  4pm-9pm, Friday-Saturday 9am-8pm, and Sunday 9am-2pm.
 </dd>
 <dt>Marché St-Quentin (85bis Boulevard Magenta, 10th arrondissement,
 Metro: Poissonière or Gare de l’Est)</dt>
 <dd>
  A lovely historic covered market of iron and glass, with produce,
  flowers, gifts, food products, bakery, and some flea-market
  stands. Open Monday-Saturday 8am-1pm and 3:30pm-7:30pm, Sunday
  8am-1pm.
 </dd>
 <dt>Marché Beauveau (Aligre) (Place d’Aligre, 12th arrondissement,
  Metro: Ledru-Rollin)</dt>
 <dd>
  The open market has existed since 1777 (the covered market built a
  century later), with with both flea-market and produce stands, and
  rock-bottom prices. Open Tuesday-Saturday 8am-1pm and 4pm-7:30pm,
  Sunday 8am-1pm.
 </dd>
 <dt>Marché de Passy (1 Rue Bois le Vent, 16th arrondissement, Metro:
  La Muette)</dt>
 <dd>
  Smack in the center of the chic Passy shopping district, this
  covered market features gourmet produce and deli stands. Open
  Tuesday-Saturday 8am-1pm and 4pm-7:30pm, Sunday 8:30am-1pm.
 </dd>
</dl>
